xv6-freebsd is a modification of MIT's xv6 operating system to improve
its C library and set of available programs. To do this, I am working
on integrating the FreeBSD 1.1.5.1 library and programs to xv6.

	Warren Toomey, mid 2016

[ The original xv6 README follows ]

xv6 is a re-implementation of Dennis Ritchie's and Ken Thompson's Unix
Version 6 (v6).  xv6 loosely follows the structure and style of v6,
but is implemented for a modern x86-based multiprocessor using ANSI C.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

xv6 is inspired by John Lions's Commentary on UNIX 6th Edition (Peer
to Peer Communications; ISBN: 1-57398-013-7; 1st edition (June 14,
2000)). See also http://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.828/2016/xv6.html, which
provides pointers to on-line resources for v6.

xv6 borrows code from the following sources:
    JOS (asm.h, elf.h, mmu.h, bootasm.S, ide.c, console.c, and others)
    Plan 9 (entryother.S, mp.h, mp.c, lapic.c)
    FreeBSD (ioapic.c)
    NetBSD (console.c)

The following people have made contributions:
    Russ Cox (context switching, locking)
    Cliff Frey (MP)
    Xiao Yu (MP)
    Nickolai Zeldovich
    Austin Clements

In addition, we are grateful for the bug reports and patches contributed by
Silas Boyd-Wickizer, Mike CAT, Nelson Elhage, Nathaniel Filardo, Peter
Froehlich, Yakir Goaran, Shivam Handa, Bryan Henry, Jim Huang, Anders Kaseorg,
kehao95, Eddie Kohler, Imbar Marinescu, Yandong Mao, Hitoshi Mitake, Carmi
Merimovich, Joel Nider, Greg Price, Ayan Shafqat, Eldar Sehayek, Yongming Shen,
Cam Tenny, Rafael Ubal, Warren Toomey, Stephen Tu, Pablo Ventura, Keiichi
Watanabe, Nicolas Wolovick, Jindong Zhang, and and Zou Chang Wei.

The code in the files that constitute xv6 is
Copyright 2006-2016 Frans Kaashoek, Robert Morris, and Russ Cox.

The code in the non-xv6 commands and libraries are
Copyright the Regents of the University of California.

ERROR REPORTS

If you spot errors in the kernel or have suggestions for kernel improvement,
please send email to Frans Kaashoek and Robert Morris
(kaashoek,rtm@csail.mit.edu).

If you spot errors in the libraries or the commands, please send email
to Warren Toomey (wkt@tuhs.org)

BUILDING AND RUNNING XV6 WITH THE FREEBSD CHANGES

Firstly, you need a 32-bit libgcc.a somewhere on your system. On Ubuntu,
I've installed the libgcc-5-dev:i386 package. Now edit Makefile.common
and set LIBGCC to the location of libgcc.a.

To build xv6 on an x86 ELF machine (like Linux or FreeBSD), run "make".
On non-x86 or non-ELF machines (like OS X, even on x86), you will
need to install a cross-compiler gcc suite capable of producing x86 ELF
binaries.  See http://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.828/2014/tools.html.
Then run "make TOOLPREFIX=i386-jos-elf-".

To run xv6, install the QEMU PC simulators.  To run in QEMU, run "make qemu".
